Thus far our requests always succeeded
but of course when interacting with servers, things can go wrong.
You might not have an internet connection or you're sending a request with incorrect data
somehow because you have a bug in your program or whatever it is or your server fails.
Maybe it's offline or there's an error on the server or you're not authenticated,
there are dozens of things that can go wrong and we can simulate such a thing that can go wrong by going
to Firebase and there in the database,
let's go to rules and remember that when we created that database, we enabled the test mode which essentially
means that
read and write access to this database is granted to everyone,
you don't need to authenticate yourself.
Now we will add authentication in the authentication module later in the course and therefore
for now, we open this up to everyone.
Now if I lock this down though, so if I say you're not allowed to read for example, you can still write but
you're not allowed to read
and by setting this to false, there is no condition under which you would ever be allowed, not even if
you are authenticated,
so if I lock this down, what happens is that if I now try to fetch posts here, you see we get an error
and that of course happens,
errors occur but it is important how we react to that error. For now,
for example here, we stay in this loading state and that is not a great user experience because now we
as a user have no idea that there was an error and that something failed.
Therefore, proper error handling matters.
Now how can we handle errors?
There are different ways of doing that.
Let me demonstrate the first possible way, here onFetchPosts fails because we have an error.
Thus far, we only passed one function to subscribe and that is the function that fires when new data
is emitted.
Now as you learned in the observables section, you can pass more arguments to subscribe
and the second argument is a function that triggers whenever an error is thrown and there, we will get
the error object as an argument
and now here, we can do something to handle that error, to do something to provide a better user interface
or a better user experience
and that often starts with a better user interface.
So for example here, what we could do is we could display an error message instead of loading.
So down there where we display loading or the content we loaded, we could actually introduce a new property,
error and set this to null initially,
so we have no error
initially. If this is not null,
so if we do have an error and we'll add logic to change that soon, I want to add a div here with the
classes alert and alert-danger which are Bootstrap classes where I simply have let's say a h1 tag, an
error occurred and below that, I want to output error because error in my case in this application
here could just be an error message
and of course it's up to you how you exactly manage that and what you store in there.
Now the idea is that this here, this div is only shown if we have an error, so if error is true-ish which
it is not if it is null. Initially it's null and therefore, it's treated as a false value and therefore initially,
this will not show up but as soon as we set this to some string, it becomes true-ish
and then this will show up.
This also means that I only want to show loading if we are fetching and we're not having an error because
if we have an error, I never want to show loading,
I want to show my alert here. Now
the remaining step is to set that error and of course, I want to do this here in my error handling function
and I will simply set this error equal to error.message because by default, error objects have a
message.
The question is if that message is helpful but at least we can set this message for now.
Now important, of course we are fetching posts, not just here but also in ngOnInit,
so there we should add the second argument as well.
And with that, let's have a look,
let's wait for that to reload
and here it is already.
Now of course, you can see this is the error message we're getting, might not be too useful,
you can definitely tweak that, you can show your own error message,
you can dive into that in more details and if you for example need more information from the error response,
let's have a look at the error we got here.
Let me save that and
now if I fetch posts, this is getting logged and you see what I log here is indeed a full error response
object.
Now there, you see that message
we accessed but you also see you got for example another error key with yet another error key that has maybe
a more helpful error message.
This however is not guaranteed to exist, this only exist because our error here is an error response,
so the Firebase server is sending back a customized error response.
Now the important thing to memorize about that however is you will get that HTTP error response object
by Angular and it will have an error key but the detailed content of what's in there depends on the API
you're talking to, Firebase gives you an object with another error key and that permission denied message.
Your own API might not be sending this or might be sending different data, so it's always important to
understand which API you're working with and what this API sends back
in the case of a success message or in the case of an error. If you need more information about the
error though and not just a generic message, then you can dive into that error object you're getting,
which is that object we're logging here and there you see you can also get information about the headers,
you can get the exact status code that was thrown which can be very helpful in showing a more useful
message and so on.
So you have all of that at your disposal
and I strongly encourage you to simply play around with that, to properly handle errors in your application
too.
However, this is just one way of handling errors,
let me show you another way that might be more suitable in other cases.